this is the story of energy and climate
change the energy we all use comes from
the Earth's fossil fuels such as gas oil
peat : petrol the story begins a long
long long time ago millions of years ago
energy from the Sun was absorbed by
plants some of which were eaten by
animals when the animals and plants died
they were covered with modern wastes and
became part of the Earth's crust for
millions of years they were squeezed
together and heated from the center of
the earth until they turned into the
fossil fuels that we use today we use
the energy stored in these fossil fuels
everyday in our homes we turn some of
the fields into electricity to light
rooms and to heat water a lot of
appliances in our homes need electricity
to work electricity is a great resource
which powers much of our lives it is
used in every house in every street in
every village town and city in the
country
we've come a long way since the
dinosaurs everywhere you look you can
see fossil fuels being used we use them
to heat our homes and petrol or diesel
to move as a boat on the road rail and
in the air when we burn fossil fuels we
release the energy inside them that was
soaked up from the Sun millions of years
ago if you follow the power lines from
your home all the way back you
eventually come to the power station
providing your energy supply
it is here that burning fossil fuels
allows us to make steam in a boiler
which in turn drives a generator to
produce your electricity but burning all
these fossil fuels for heat electricity
and transport also creates a gas called
carbon dioxide carbon dioxide is a gas
which stays inside the Earth's
atmosphere it allows the sun's rays in
but doesn't let the heat out the more
fossil fuels we burn the more carbon
dioxide we produced to trap the sun's
heat it's a sort of loop this warming of
the atmosphere is causing our climate to
change faster than it ever has before we
need to look at smarter ways to use our
energy and also to seek alternatives to
fossil fuels
you